# The Precipice
***2024-08-31 by Proud Lobster***

Two nights ago I published a prototype of the Hunt the Wumpus Online console to the Internet.  While it doesn't really *work* and the game isn't exactly *playable* this nonetheless represents a significant milestone for the project and for me personally as a developer.  This subtle action is the turning point for an eight year hobby project starting to turn the corner from "fanciful programming exercise" toward "oh, this could be like... *a thing*".
***
When I was a fourth-year student working on my Bachelors in Computer Science I signed up for a special topics course in the writing department: "Narrative Game Design".  Academic programs in game design were a fairly nescent thing in the USA at the time, so this was a big deal.  The are many assignments from this course that still stick with me decades later, but the one most pertinent to this article is one where we were asked to find a "classic game" (I believe "released before 1990" was the criteria) and do a research presentation on how the game's narrative elements influenced its gameplay and vice-versa.  I was a bit of a [MUD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-user_dungeon) enthusiast in high school, so I decided to explore the roots of that genre and opted to research a game I already cursory awareness of as a CompSci student: Hunt the Wumpus.

I'm going to set aside the actual content of that presentation; that is a topic for a whole different article.  The pertinent part right now is what I learned about the game's history and how despite its proliferation through the 1970s and 80s no one really did anything notable with the game or the wumpus itself except for printing it on [some Magic: the Gathering cards](https://scryfall.com/search?q=wumpus&unique=cards&as=grid&order=name) and [using it as a product mascot](https://discord.fandom.com/wiki/Wumpus).  By the time I was in college the game had become solely an artifact whose merits had not grown outside of the bounds that Gregory Yob originally crafted it for: a programming exercise to grow and influence the budding adventure game genre.  Despite its potential as an iconic public domain gold mine, the beast has been laying dormant this whole time.
***
It's a weird thing to write a blog post that you expect won't be read until some significant amount of time *after* you post it.  I have been working on this game off-and-on through a number of different iterations - some of which I may explore in future posts - for over 8 years, and it may be many more years still before the game is fully playable or anyone actually gives it any attention.  But I cannot shake the feeling that with the publication of the console this past week I am finally approaching a point where a very real, very playable, very ***wumpus*** video game is nearing on the horizon.