# What is "Hunt the Wumpus" Anyway?
***2024-11-28 by Proud Lobster***

Let's get the Wikipedia stuff out of the way: Hunt the Wumpus is a 1974 text adventure game written by Gregory Yob as a programming exercise for the People's Computer Company.  The novelty of the game was that is eschewed grid-based topography of other adventure games of its time.  That's all well and good, but let's move on to what the game "is" from a sort of "game anthropology" point of view.

Hunt the Wumpus (let's just call is "HTW" from here on out) is what I like to refer to as a "precursor game", which is to say that in an era before game genres were meaningful it did some things that helped shape the genres of the future while also sitting somewhat outside of them.  In my mind, a precursor game is never an archetype of the genre it is feeding, since once it "fits the mold" it's no longer a precursor, but rather just an early member of the genre.  I like this classification because it helps provide some context to the Wikipedia claim of HTS being an "adventure" game.  It may have been considered an adventure game at the time, but from a historical perspective it lacks the storytelling elements that adventure games would become known for.  Instead, I like to think of HTW as a "precursor roguelike".  After all, its gameplay loop rests less on "completing an adventure" and more on "surmounting challenges", ideally by applying some kind of optimal or "least fatal" strategy.

In HTW you play the role of a hunter seeking to slay a mythical beast.  The primary challenge of the game is not so much fighting the beast as it is traversing the beast's lair, which is a dark cave laid out with a variety of hazards that must be avoided using clues.  Despite the layout of the lairs often being fairly simple and standardized, the challenge is maze-like due to the placement of the hazards, making each run of the game slightly different.  Early versions of the game had fairly basic hazards, and later ones would evolve them a bit, but the mechanics of the game never strayed too far from its loop: avoid hazards, approach wumpus without getting caught, shoot an arrow at it.  If you hit certain hazards or accidentally stumble into the wumpus, your run ends.

The genetics of HTW can be traced fairly clearly through the ages.  The mechanics of the game appear frequently through out the ages of the "multi-user dungeon" era of online gaming, with those games ultimately being precursors to what we now call MMORPGs.  And we have already noted how the survival elements of the game likely inspired Rogue, which gave rise to the roguelike genre and now the prevalent "rogue-likes" we enjoy today.  And yet given its pedegree, has anyone examined what it may look like if we apply five decades of gaming evolution to this lauded classic?  To my knowledge, not until now...
