# A Year's Difference
***2026-01-05 by Proud Lobster***

Looking back at the Fall of 2024 feels like a different world with regard to Wumpus. Make no mistake, the game is still not anywhere near ready, but the evolution of both the premise and the technology has been significant.

First a foremost, the game design document has developed to the point where I feel there are realistic goalposts for an initial release, and I am hoping to publish snippets from among those goals in the near future. Over the course of the past 14 months I have started looking at the design of the game from a somewhat academic standpoint since I'm more curious now than I have ever been about whether or not it will actually be fun for other people to play. I don't know if I will ever be fully convinced of that until it's in the hands of the public and strangers start telling me so. But if I try to design the game with some sort of analytical rigor than I can atleast tell myself that I tried!

The next most interesting bit is the technology. Last week I spent the tail end of my holiday vacation - away from my actually professional job! - refactoring the guts of the engine, and at the end of it all I am proud to say that the game still ran on top of it with only minor tweaks. This is a significant leap from my 2024 holiday break where I did the same thing but the game DIDN'T run. So that's progress! I speak about the custom game engine with professional acquantences sometimes, and they poke and prod as engineers tend to do when a peer does something as silly as build their own solution, but I don't mind; I would do the same to them, for sure. But after so many years - and what amounts to my fourth or fifth engine refactor - the fact that the "bones" of the game still work after swapping out the guts is a real point of pride for me. I feel like these are the sorts of problems that only solo developers can both solve AND create for themselves ([see: Ouroboros](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ouroboros)).

After reflecting on the prior year of plodding, incremental progress, I am trying to reconcile what the road ahead may look like. Maybe next time I remember to write a post I will inject some of those critical design artifact as "mile markers" along the way. But rest assured, there is no way I am going to estimate a timeline, because almost assuredly any estimates I set for myself on this project WILL be missed.
